With that there's just one thing missing and that is when I click book here on a place detail, I don't
actually want to go back,
I wanted to open a modal, right? Now how does opening modals work in an Ionic Angular app? Just as the
rest,
it's actually pretty simple. Now
the modal will actually be a new component for me and therefore I'll first of all generate this with
Ionic generate
and now this is not really a page here, I'll not lazy load it,
that wouldn't work,
instead it's a regular component which we can generate with Ionic generate component and I will generate
it in my bookings folder because the component will be responsible for making a booking and there, I'll name
it create booking let's say, you can of course use any name you want.
This will generate the create booking component here in the bookings folder,
there it is
and in there, I still want to have a header even though it's not a page,
I will load it in a modal which will occupy the full screen, so I'll add a header with a toolbar with
a title, book this place and then ion content where I'll for now just add a h1, tag book this place and then we'll
add more later.
So this is the component I want to open as a modal, so as a full screen at least on mobile, full screen
overlay. How do we achieve that? In the place where I want to open the modal which is in my place
detail component
when I press that button here, there in onBookPlace,
I now don't want to navigate back as I did it before, instead
well unsurprisingly I want to open that modal. For this,
we can inject something into this component and that is the modal controller.
It's of type modal controller and you do import modal controller from Ionic Angular, just like all these
other special Ionic controllers,
the modal controller allows you to open a modal. So in on book place, you can use this modal controller
and call that create method.
Now the create method takes an object where you configure that modal and most importantly, you need to
set a component here and that is the component that should be opened as a modal.
There you simply point at your component class, so the value for this
in my case here is create booking component. So you point at the create booking component class without
the new keyword or anything like that
and you need to import the create booking component here,
let me actually use a relative path here, like this.
So now create booking component is imported here,
one thing we got to do here to make this work though is we need to register this component or we need
to declare it.
Now currently that's done in the bookings module because Ionic generate found that this is the nearest
module to the create booking component but it's actually not the module I want to use.
So let me remove it from the declarations there and let me remove the import there and instead, I will
declare it in the place
detail module because in the place detail component, I will open it.
So in the place detail module, I will add my create booking component.
Now important, if you had multiple components in your app or which are in different Angular modules that
would open one and the same modal component, then you could create a shared module with that component
in it that you import into all the other components where you need to open it. So here
I'd only need the create booking component in the place detail module though, so it's fine to add it like
this,
obviously you want to add an import at the top like that
and now it's declared,
now we can create it here.
Now just as with the alerts you saw earlier, this gives us a promise where we get our modal element and
now we can call modal el present to actually show it.
So create just creates it but doesn't show it, present will show it.
Now you can configure other things here too, whether it's animated, whether you want to add your own CSS
classes, some advanced things,
if you can close it with the keyboard, things like that, component props will become important later but
for now, let's just open it with this trick here. So back on our application, let's login,
let's go to a place, let's click book and we get an error.
Now this error here is a typical error
you will face a lot when working with modals and therefore I'm deliberately showing it to you. No component
factory found for create booking component,
did you add it to ngModule entry components and this is a really good error message because it already
shows us the solution. When you're opening a component or when you're rendering a component, in a way
like we're doing it here,
so neither by using routing to show it and we aren't using routing, we're not using the Angular router, we
haven't configured any route that would load that component
and we're also not using it by its selector,
we're not including the selector of this component into any of our templates.
So if you're doing neither of these two things, then you need to add the component to a special array
in your module which is named entry components,
so you simply add your component there.
Now why is this required?
It let's Angular know that this eventually will be created programmatically and that Angular should basically
be prepared to render that component when you require it to.
So adding create booking component to entry components of the place detail page module is the solution
and now once you do that, when this reloads and you login and you go to your place and you click book,
here is our modal sliding up from the top
and of course I haven't shown this in a while but of course we have different animations for different
devices,
so if I show this on an iPhone here,
there it slides up like that.
So that is pretty sweet,
now how can we pass data into that modal,
how can we close it and how can we pass data back?
These are typical questions you have when working with modals.